>> Hi everyone.
In unit one, we have learned bit stream copy makes a bit-for-bit copy
of all sectors on the drive.
Now let's explore one well-known forensic imaging tool called FTK Imager.
FTK Imager is a free tool.
In this unit's activity, I provide instructions for where
to download software and then how to play with it.
In this demo, we will use FTK Imager to bit stream copy a USB content.
Now, if the USB is larger, than certainly it takes longer to image.
And I am only using USB with 1-gig content.
Also please be aware, FTK Imager does not guarantee data is not [inaudible]
to the drive during imaging.
So a right blocker should be used in a real case.
Assume you have a USB [inaudible] for this exercise.
Okay. Let's play now.
We open up FTK Imager from my toolbox.
Now here you will see FTK Imager may modify the drive you are imaging,
so you have to use the right block.
So we open file.
Create disk image, because we are creating disk image.
So we choose physical drive since USB is a physical drive, and then we select correct one.
We want to image.
Click finish.
Now here we need to describe what type of image we want to create
and where should we put this FTK image.
We use raw dd.
In this case we create a raw dd type, and since FTK image can also create other types like FT --
in case we will describe those later.
But in this case we only use dd, create a dd raw image.
Now we fill in information such as case name and evidence number
and a description, examiner names.
Those information eventually will be displayed in the summary file, in FTK image summary file.
And here we'll describe where this image should be stored.
We will put on desktop.
You can choose any place you would like to.
And then which image file name you want to call.
We call it FTK Imager Demo.
Okay. Now there's another option called verify images after they are created.
If this is checked, this by default is checked, FTK Imager will create MD5 and the SHA1
after imaging is done, and it will verify the hashes match.
Then the imaging process is done.
So for FTK Imager, the preserve part is automatically built into the tool.
Now it is imaging and you see the status bar moving.
That's great to tell you how far it has gone.
I'm using a 1-gig USB drive, so it should be very quick to finish.
After it's done, MD5 hash and SHA1 created.
Now the bad sector list tells you whether it's encountered any bad sector.
If that's the case then we will be in trouble because the hashes will not match.
So all that information created.
Now imaging is done because the original match the image.
In the summary file it details all information
about the USB you're acquiring, and then the MD5 SHA1 hash.
So now we are done with imaging and we look at our desktop.
There are two files created.
The name is kind of confusing.
Both are called FTK Imager Demo, but actually one file is a text file.
It's a summary, and the one file is image itself.
If you look at the time stamp -- if you look at the description, you will see.
So this is the text one.
This is the text file.
It is same as the summary.
It's created to give you summary of imaging process.
Now let's open -- now let's open the image we create.
We say add evidence item.
FTK Imager not only can view -- not only create image, it also can view it.
So we choose image file because we create the image file.
So we're browsing in the tool identified image file from our desktop.
Moving down now you will see two files name as FTK Imager Demo, but one is called 001 file.
Another one is called text document.
So we open up the 001 file.
That's the image.
Say finish.
So now FTK Imager allowed you to view the image you created.
You cannot do many analysis functions here.
Another tool call FTK will do it, but this FTK Imager at least lets you browse through
and simply you can see the content.
And by using the image you create -- yeah, you can look into each of the folder.
Whenever it has a plus you can expand it, and those details -- I will talk about that later.
And the one with X, red X mark on, that one is deleted file.
So interestingly, now we use FTK create image and also view.
There are other functions.
For example, capture memory -- that will dump memory out, dump the current memory out.
And the Obtain Protected Files, that will dump out system files
such as Windows registry files out.
So you can see FTK Imager is quite useful and has many functionalities.
Hopefully you enjoy it.