>> We emphasized in the previous video that forensic procedure
and technologists are the two most important aspects in computer forensics.
Now, let's get into the forensics procedure.
When a computer incident is confirmed, forensic investigation starts.
If the suspect machine is still on and connected to the network, how do we start?
Should we turn the system off?
The answer is, we should follow the company's incident response policies and procedures
to decide whether turn off the suspect machine immediately or not.
However, we should be aware that if we turn the system off, we will lose computer memory
and volatile data, such as logged-in users, PCP connections, and the running processes,
etc. If possible, we should collect the volatile data before turning off the machine.
If the suspect machine can be turned off, the second question is, how to turn off the system?
Turn off gracefully or forcefully?
If you turn off the system gracefully, it ensures the system remains
in a consistent state, since graceful shutdown includes fresh buffers to save information
to disks, notify users and services, etc. However, intruders may have installed rootkits
to destroy evidence upon receiving graceful shutdown command.
For example, they may deleting certain or all files on system.
You will lose volatile data, including the network state, such as network connections
and app tables, along with running processes, logged users, kernel and swap space contents.
If you shut down the system forcefully by yanking the power cord,
it will avoid potential loss of evidence caused by rootkits.
However, it may cost data in cache not written to disk, and leave data in a inconsistent state,
and you will still lose volatile data.
Comparing these two shutdown scenarios from a forensic perspective,
you should always yank the power cord, and you have to document every action.
The forensic procedure starts with establishing a detailed chain of custody.
The concept for chain of custody is not new.
It is to maintain a record of how evidence has been handled, from the moment it was collected
to the moment it was present to a court.
Chain-of-custody items include date and the time the evidence was collected,
full name and signature of each person possessing the evidence, and for how long,
location and lockers for the evidence, and whether it was stored in a tamper-proof manner.
You must document all activities and transfers of the evidences
from one person to another person.
If a computer is seized and powered off, then the hard drives should be removed
and tagged separately from the system.
The maker, model, and serial number for hard drives, along with other descriptions
of evidences, case number, and item or tag number of evidence should be recorded.