>> You may be familiar with the concept of computer forensics
from the TV series Crime Scene Investigation, <i>CSI</i> and its spinoff, <i>CSI: Cyber</i>.
Modern computer crime or cybercrime includes child pornography; fraud; terrorism; extortion;
cyberstalking; money laundering; forgery; and identify theft, among others.
For cybercrime investigations, detectives rely heavily on digital evidences,
such as suspects' GPS data, smartphone data, and computer network data.
The ultimate goal of a forensic investigation is to identify, analyze, reconstruct past events
or activities, and to present admissible evidence to court.
Starting this week we will study computer forensics concepts, along appropriate procedures
and technologies forensic investigator uses to work
on digital evidence without tampering with data.
The field of computer forensics is relatively young.
In 1999, Dan Farmer and Wietse Venema -- both of them computer security researchers
and programmers -- they presented the forensic process
and the first computer forensic suite called The Coroner's Toolkit or shortly called TCT,
which marked the beginning of the computer forensics field.
In their presentation, Farmer and Venema defined computer forensics as gathering
and analyzing data in a manner as free from distortion or bias as possible,
to reconstruct data or what has happened in the past on a system.
Now, it's kind of long, but actually it means computer forensic investigators use forensic
tools and follow appropriate procedures to collect, preserve, analyze,
and report admissible evidence to court providing his
or her critical judgments of exactly what has happened.
The term preserve here means to authorize that evidence presented
to court has never been modified.
This is crucially important.
Following forensic procedure and using appropriate tools are important.
The digital evidence could be tainted depending on how it was collected
and analyzed and where it was stored.
Also, if you copy a file using, for example, the Linux/Unix command CP,
you modified files' access time, which accidentally taints the evidence.
Let's look at types of computer forensics technology.
When reconstructing evidence, the first question is:
Where do we extract or collect evidence from?
The evidence may reside in computer systems, computer networks, computer media,
computer peripherals -- basically everywhere.
Data can be in one of the three states: At rest, which means stored in a computer drive,
the Cloud, or a USB drive, etc, a mobile phone; data in use, which means data is
in a computer's memory currently in use; or data in transit,
which means moving through a network.
The forensic tools that collect and analyze data at rest are different
from the tools targeting to data in transit.
So based on that, we can categorize computer forensics by technologists working
with different types of evidence.
System forensics focus on evidence from volatile data, such as data in memory,
and non-volatile data, which resides in hard drives; computer discs;, floppy discs;
magnetic tapes; zip and the JAZ discs; log files;
etc. Network forensics determines what happened on a system based on network traffic study,
such as timeline analysis, IP address, or contents of the packets.
This task is technically challenging since this evidence is often transient
and does not last as long as stored media.
Cloud forensics is an emerging area focusing on Cloud-based evidence, such as Google Drives,
web-based email stored on servers owned by a third party.
This course, however, focus primary on computer system forensics,
especially for Windows and Linux/Unix operating system.
While forensic tools and technologies differ from various types of operating systems,
the general forensic procedure remains the same.
Now, we know that computer forensics use technologies
to discover information about illegal activities.
There are also the counterpart called anti-digital forensics or ADF,
which are technologies designed to thwart discovery of such information.
ADF approaches aim to manipulate, erase, or obfuscate digital data
to make forensic examination difficult, time-consuming, or virtually impossible.
Here I give you some examples of ADF technologies, for example,
renaming files by changing file extensions; data hiding by associating good blocks
with the bad block inodes; overwriting data and metadata, sometimes called wiping;
hide or obfuscating data through steganography, cryptography, and other methods.
Finally, I want to discuss the role of expert witness,
which is one of the computer forensic examiner's most important function.
Expert witness present in court to judges, attorneys, juries, and other attendants
to state their findings, opinions, and conclusions within the bounds of the trial.
Expert witnesses follow the procedure of the court, testifying the scientific basis
of findings, analyses, and conclusions,
and demonstrate the scientific knowledge associated with their areas of expertise.
It is critical that the expert shows no bias in action or explanation and speaks only truths.